The First of Many Frequent Updates

<p>In what will be the first of many frequent updates, we look at the
current state of my blosxom blog!</p>

<p>Well, I've got that out of my system. Phew. I've been playing
around with a couple of plug-ins for Blosxom, and you can see the
output of some of them on the left. I'll probably end up ditching the
calendar, since there's not a lot of point when "frequent" is likely
to mean once a week or so.</p>

<p>Two other plug-ins you can't directly see. They are <a
href="http://raelity.org/apps/blosxom/downloads/plugins/flavourdir">flavourdir</a>,
which allows you to put flavour files (which are more or less HTML
templates) in a sub-directory so they don't litter the blog root dir,
and timezone, which allows me to display time stamps (the "Posted at"
time below) in my local timezone (Australian Eastern Daylight at the
moment).</p>

<p>In other news, not directly related to Blosxom... Last week was
quite eventful at work. On Monday, I resigned! I've decided to do some
contracting for a while, for the dual benefits of some more in-depth
J2EE development experience, and a much-improved cash-flow
picture. Yeah, yeah, I know, security, blah blah... but things
definitely seem to be picking up in the local market, so I'm not too
worried about my medium-term outlook.</p>

<p>On the home front, things are moving along at a rapid pace. <a
href="http://www.mojain.com/jo" >Jo</a> has been buying and putting up
blinds, which is much more convincing than the sheets we have had on
the windows. I've been doing some traditional blokey stuff, pulling up
the temporary fencing from the backyard and turning a small patch of
hardened clay into soil. That's not as much fun as it sounds, and I
have a whole new appreciation for the term "back-breaking work". I'll
no longer be applying it to debugging even the worst spaghetti
code.</p>

