---
layout: post
title: What customers look for
---

I learnt something today. I've been involved in evaluating vendor
reponses to an RFP for a small-ish bespoke system development. The
functional spec and "detailed design" had already been completed for
the system, so it was purely the build and deploy phase to be done. My
role was evaluating the technical competence of the vendors'
proposals. 

So I read the proposals, I listened to their presentations, I asked
probing questions. And I formed an opinion. Then it came time for the
evaluation team to get together and compare notes.

For one of the vendors, I had significant concerns about their lead
technical "architect". He was clearly a cowboy, and had a sloppy
approach (a small example: the proposal defined MVC as "multiple
virtual storage"... wah??). He seemed to have a shallow understanding
of J2EE architecture and fundamentals. When I raised this with the
evaluation team, I was met with "but he responded calmly under the
pressure of our questioning". 

The "business" people on the evaluation team (that is, the
representatives of the system's end users) were quite openly stating
that they were less concerned with the vendor's actual technical
ability and depth than with their ability to "remain calm under
pressure". Sure, I can see that's important, but what's the use if the
pressure grew out of their inability to actually do the work in the
first place?

This is a triumph of form over function. The management of this large
corporation were effectively saying "we care more that the vendor puts
on a good front, and has someone to kick, than actually builds a well
designed system".

Reinforcing this was my second lesson. Part of the evaluation process
involves going through a spreadsheet scoring the vendor's response
against requirements (functional and non). There are four sheets, one
of which is for the technical element (the others are project
management, commercial and vendor stability). The technical part was
weighted at 10% of the total score! Again, management is saying "we
care more that the vendor looks good and presents a good management
face than whether they can actually deliver the system".

I'm being perhaps a little unfair. As stated above, this project was
purely for the build phase, the initial design being already
complete. I suppose in this circumstance, project management does play
a large role in determining success, on the assumption that all the
big technical and architectural decisions have already been made.

But I think it's an interesting lesson for those of us who care deeply
about technical quality, right down to the level of implementation. I
may care, and if you're reading this perhaps you do too, but in the
corporate world, it's just not that important. What's important there
is making the right sounds and playing the right game.
