---
layout: post
title: Back on the air
---

After a frustrating weekend of ADSL outages a couple of weeks ago,
thanks either to my ISP or, more likely, their upstream provider (the
Australian Monopoly Telco Who Shall Not Be Named), I started hunting
around for a new ISP. Just on a whim, I checked my exchange on the
ADSL2+ roll-out status page at [iiNet][1]. And lo! It's available!

[1]: http://www.iinet.net.au/

So I signed up for their standard plan, which gives me "up to" 24Mbps
and 10GB download per month (plus another 10GB off peak). Given that I
haven't had to try too hard to keep within my current 5GB (+5GB) plan,
and iiNet's 10+10 is $20/mo less, it seemed like a good place to
start. I also get their local phone service (bundled with ADSL2+) and
VoIP, which should be interesting.

The downside of upgrading from ADSL to ADLS2+ is that there's no "fast
churn". In other words, I had to disconnect my current service and
then wait for the new one to be provisioned. But now it's active! (And
only three business days later, which is better than I expected.)

I don't have the new ADSL2+ modem yet, but even with my current modem
(a [Netcomm NB1300][2]) I've seen download speeds of about 380KBps
(that's bytes there sonny), which is fairly impressive. Uploads are
going at about 60-80KBps, which is a lot better than the old 24KBps.
My line attentuation is hovering around the 50dB mark according to the
NB1300, which I'm led to believe means I probably won't get much more
than 10Mbps anyway, but we'll see how it goes when the new modem
arrives.

[2]: http://www.netcomm.com.au/ADSL/NB1300.php

It's amazing how long five days felt without 'net connectivity,
though... :-D
